Motivation:

The users we are catering to are the MBTA officials and others who would like these visualizations in order to determine where the most fuel is being used, what type and how much. From this, the MBTA should be able to determine figures like environmental impact, costs, etc. The goal of these visualizations is to present both an overview of trends over the years, as well as provide details on demand. It will be presented neutrally, yet still “tell a story,” in order to best visualize where fuel has gone within the MBTA. 

~ 90 words
Edits: Supposed to be 200 words?? Not sure what else to add


Visualization Explanation:

From the beginning, our visualizations were focused on accuracy and readability. Because our focus was not to convince anyone of a certain point, or make a particular statement, we didn't need to cater to any sort of emotion or mission statement. Rather, we ensure our graphs simply tell the story of where fuel has gone within the MBTA in the time period specified. 

Specifically, our use of our two chosen visualizations, the line graph and the parallel diagram, were chosen because we determined them to be very well suited for the portrayal of general trends. If used in a business setting, we feel our graphs would be able to give immediate and clear impressions of questions like: "What is the most used fuel?" or "What fuel source fuels the most types of transport?" It was also with this in mind we chose bright, identifiable colors. 

~145 words
Edits: Add Class Feedback


Data Analysis: 

Our data comes from a dataset titled: Fuel and Energy, a publicly available dataset from which we pulled our numbers about Year, Fuel Source, Miles Traveled, and Mode of Travel. There were other categories, but we did not use them due to them not fitting into our focus or finding them unclear. We cleaned the data by removing empty cells and transferring the data into a CSV file, then a json file. 

~72 words
Edit: Ask Ben more about how data was cleaned. Add more content


Task Analysis:

Our tasks shifted as our focus narrowed down into our current topic and found we were limited by a lack of appropriate datasets. There are a few however, we prioritized:
Analyzing annual trends in energy consumption and emissions.
As mentioned previously, we were sorely disappointed by the lack of available data of this type. However, we were definitely able to satisfy the part of the task where we aimed to analyze trends in energy consumption, expanding on that by what energy was consumed, where it went, and how many miles were derived from it. 
 Comparing each mode of transportation's miles traveled over instances of time.
We were able to get this data from the Miles Traveled category of our dataset. The logic being that it allowed for conclusions to be made about what the “best” or most “efficient” fuel source was. If more fuel was dedicated to a service that didn’t travel as much as another, that could be considered a source of inquiry.
Viewing trains by fuel type or line.
The categories of Fuel Source and Mode allow us to summarize these aspects. Different types of fuel fuel different modes of transportation found within the MBTA. And, as seen by our parallel diagram, some overlap, while some don't. Our visualizations lend to a quick analysis of these clearly separated and labeled categories.

~223 words
Edits: Proofread. Edit and Add task table?


Design Process:

Our designs stemmed from rough drafts drawn by Ben Lichter. We found them easy to understand and the best at making the most of categorical clarity. His marks and channels benefited the data most by using size to quickly create immediate visible differences between amounts and distinct color that didn’t communicate anything outside of simply categorizing fuel types. 

From there, we made a rough draft of our visual, adding the necessary categories in PowerPoint, to see if it held up with our demands. It was from this second rough draft that we determined how brushing and linking would function, how to filter the two graphs, and how the user would select the graph to receive data on demand. One specific difference we made was to slightly lower the transparency of the lines in the parallel diagram. In the one drawn by Ben, we didn’t consider how the graph would look when colors overlapped to travel from fuel source to mode of transportation. We came up with the idea to slightly lower the opacity of the lines. That way, certain lines would be followable even when they overlapped, and if made solid when selected, added a visual indicator of selection.

~199 words
Edit: Add coding experience. Add peer feedback


Conclusion:

Edit: Do at end of project with all of our experiences
